---
date: 2015-04-29T00:00:00Z
tags:
- apple watch
- watch
- ios
- iphone
title: Apple Watch First Impressions
url: /2015/04/apple-watch-first-impressions/
---

I realise that every one has written one of these posts, but given that everyone
looks for and notices different things, I think it is still valid.

My first impression was "Why does it come in such a large box?". The courier
delivered two boxes - my 38mm Apple Watch Sport and Tim's 42mm Apple Watch
Sport. They both came in long boxes, with the 42mm box significantly longer. And
both boxes were heavy!

---

### Un-boxing:

Opening them was a typical Apple experience: pull the tag to open the external
cardboard box, lift out the white internal box. This opens to reveal the watch
with the default strap attached (short for 38mm, long for 42mm). Lift the watch
out and pull the tags to remove the plastic protective coating. (On a side note,
it drives me crazy when people leave this coating on devices, but I can't see
this happening on the watch.) Underneath there is a sleeve containing the other
half watch strap so you can swap from long to short. My family tells me that
this also includes a user guide, but I didnâ€™t read that - typical Apple user...
Under the sleeve is the power block and charging cable. The charging puck is
larger than I expected and the cable is very long. Having removed all the
components, the packaging is still quite heavy, so I guess Apple just wanted to
make sure that no watches were damaged in transit and that it felt like a
quality product.

---

### Pairing

Pairing my watch to my iPhone was amazingly slick. After selecting my language,
the watch displayed a sort of nebula pattern. On the iPhone, I launched the
Apple Watch app, selected the pairing option and pointed the phone camera at the
watch display. This did the pairing. Then I waited while all the relevant apps
transferred their Apple Watch components to the watch and I was ready to start
using it.

---

### The Watch:

The watch comes with the modular watch face showing by default. This is a
digital time read-out with various 'complications'. Force-touch the watch face
to change it - this takes a surprisingly strong touch. Then you can swipe
sideways to select a watch style. Once you have a style selected, some of them
offer further customisations: select how much detail is shown, choose what extra
information to display, adjust colors.

This is a lot of fun and I am still changing mine very frequently. The good
thing is that your customisations are stored, so if you set up the utility watch
face in a particular way, then swap to the modular and configure it, when you go
back to utility, your previous settings are all still there.

The screen is gorgeous - very crisp and easy to read.

Twisting your wrist to show the time works well most of the time. There is a
delay that I would estimate at about half a second, presumably to avoid false
positives triggering unnecessary displays. If you are holding your wrist at an
unusual angle e.g. showing the watch to someone, this twist will not always
work, but tapping the screen will display the watch face instantly.

Tapping on a complication will take you to the relevant parent app e.g. tapping
the current temperature will open the Weather app.

A minor quibble is that the phases of the moon are displayed from a northern
hemisphere point of view and do not match what we actually see here in
Australia.

---

### Battery Life:

This is a complete non-issue. On my first day with the watch, the battery was at
70% when I first turned it on. As you can imagine, usage was very intense that
first day and I got to 8%. Since then, the battery level has only got down to 40
-50% over a day and it recharges to 100% within 2 hours. Tim's 42mm model gets
slightly better battery life as expected.

I started off having the battery indicator as one of the 'complications' on my
watch face, but now I just ignore it.

And the battery life of my iPhone has improved remarkably due to so many quick
transactions being done through the watch instead.

I did have a charging problem one night. I woke up and checked the time and
realised that the watch was quite warm to the touch. I checked the battery level
which was actually lower than when I had put it on the charger. I took it off
the charger for a few hours, then put it back and all was well.

---

### Notifications

Here is where you need to be careful. I had turned off most notifications on my
phone before getting the watch, so I have not been inconvenienced, in fact I
have been able to re-enable many notifications as they are no longer so
intrusive.

At first we thought some notifications were not getting through to the watch,
then we found out that if your iPhone is awake and un-locked, notifications are
not passed on to the watch. So drop the time until sleep on your phone to the
minimum which saves your phone battery and makes sure you receive most
notifications on the watch.

If you want to stop any apps sending notifications through to the watch, this is
easily set in the iPhone's Apple Watch app.

I have noticed there is a bit of a delay. I hear an email or message arriving on
my phone and it can be half a minute before it gets to my watch.

Once you get a notification, you can tap it to go to the parent app, swipe up to
process it in some way depending on the type of notification, or swipe to the
left to see a button that will clear the notification. If you want to get rid of
all your notifications at once, do a force-touch on the notifications screen to
get the option to clear them all.

---

### Glances

Glances are designed to be one screen indicators giving you important
information as quickly as possible. From there, you can decide whether to go to
the parent app or not. These are accessed by swiping up from the bottom of the
screen when looking at the watch face.

I found that the most important thing here was to reduce the number of glances
shown, since they are displayed sequentially. If you have 20 glances installed,
you have to swipe at least 20 times to see them all. So go to the Apple Watch
app on your iPhone and turn off the glances you do not find essential.

The first glance in the sequence is essential though as it allows you to toggle
airplane mode, do not disturb and silent mode. It also has a button that can
make your iPhone make a sound to help you locate it. Hold this button down to
make the iPhone flash come on as well.

---

### Activity

Here I have to confess to my first disappointment. The activity app tracks three
things: Move, Exercise and Stand. When you first start the watch, you tell it
your age, sex, weight and height. It computes a suggested daily move goal for
you which you can adjust at any time. Then it tracks your daily activities and
shows how well you are doing in relation to your goal. For exercise and standing
the goals are 30 minutes exercise and standing for at least one minute in an
hour 12 times though the day.

The move tracking seems to be fine. I am not sure what metrics it uses, but on
more active days, the numbers go up.

The exercise one doesn't work for me. We went for a walk and when we returned,
Tim's watch showed 25 minutes exercise and mine showed 1 minute. We had walked
the same distance at the same speed, as confirmed by the pedometer. Subsequent
tests revealed that I don't swing my arms enough when walking to trigger what
ever sensor this is using. I can't quite see why it ignores the pedometer
completely, but hopefully this can be fixed by a software update. For now, I
just ignore this circle.

Standing is another issue since I use a standing desk, so I stand for many hours
each day. Even when standing, I get my hourly reminders to stand. However I use
this as a trigger to make me to move about for a minute, so I suppose that is
still useful.

---

### Communications

The various forms of communication are a real strength of the watch. With Tim &
I both having watches, we can phone, message (audio or text) and use the new
Digital Touch to send sketches, taps or heart beats. While it feels a bit weird
to be talking to your wrist, this works really well and the sound quality is
amazing for such a small device. If you need more privacy, it is very easy to
transfer a phone call back to your phone.

Oddly, the watch does not appear to offer FaceTime but always uses standard
phone calls.

Messages are where the watch excels. If you get a message with a question, the
watch can suggest possible answers so you just have to tap a button. Even
without this, there is a set of pre-defined answers which you can edit in the
Apple Watch app on your iPhone. And you can also use dictation or the new
animated emojis. Dictation seems a lot better on the watch than it ever was
before on the phone. And even if dictation is not transcribed perfectly, you can
send the message as an audio recording instead of text.

When recording, tap the Done button as soon as you have finished speaking. The
inclination is to wait for the text to be processed, but the recording carries
on, so stop the recording and let the text processing finish in its own time.

The animated emojis work when you send them to other devices as they appear as
GIFs. You can choose from 3 sets: faces, hands and hearts. Once you have swiped
to select a set, use the crown to scroll between the options. You can also swipe
further to get to the standard emojis.

Digital Touch works between watches only. It is a fun gimmick and I can imagine
us developing a set of key codes or sketches, but neither of us can draw very
well, so the sketches are very rough. The heart beat is amusing, but the tapping
is surprisingly effective as an attention-getter.

---

### Summary

I think this is the start of a new way of interacting with our technology in a
way that is both closer to us and less intrusive. I am loving the watch so far
and can't wait to see where it goes from here.

---
